The normal heartbeat
begins with electrical impulses
from the sinoatrial or SA node
a group of specialized
pacemaker cells in the right atrium.
These impulses cause the atria
to contract and push blood
into the ventricles.
The impulse travels down
to a junction called
the atrioventricular or AV node.
It then moves to the ventricles,
which contract and pump blood out
to the lungs and the rest of the body.
In people with atrial fibrillation,
a chaotic electrical signal in the upper
part of the heart
produces a change in heart rhythm.
The atrial muscles quiver.
Electrical signals to the lower chambers
of the heart are irregular,
so that the heartbeat may be
fast and irregular,
and the heart may have more trouble
pumping efficiently.